National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework is a voluntary framework consist of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risks.

HIPPA - Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act)
PII - Personally Identifiable Information
SPII - Sensitive personally identifiable information
PHI - Protected Health Information
GDPR - General Data Protection Regulation
PCI DSS - Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard
FIPS - Federal Information Processing Standardd

sha256 - hashing
LDAP - Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
SAML - Security Assertion Markup Language
IAM - Identity and Access Manaagement
MAC - Mandatory Access Control
DAC - Discretionary Access Control
RBAC - Role-based Access Control

Vulnerability - is a weakness that can be exploited by a threat
Exposure - is a mistake that can be exploited by a threat
CVE list (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures list) - an openly accessible dictionary of known vulnerabilities and exposures

CNA (CVE Numbering Authority) - an organization that volunteers to analyze and distribute information on eligible CVEs

OWASP - Open WorldWide Application Security Project

OSINT - Open-source intelligence 

CISA - Cybersecurity and Infrastruture Security Agency

Penetration test - is a simulated attack that helps identify vulnerabilities in systems, networks, websites, application, and processes.

Threat actor - is any person or group who presents a security risk.

hacker - is any person who uses computers to gain unauthorized access to computer systems, networks, or data.

brute force attacks - are trial-and-error process of discovering private information.

Social engineering - a manipulation technique that exploits human error to gain private information, access, or valuables.

Phishing - the use of digital communications to trick people into revealing sensitive data or deploying malicious software

Malware - are software that are designed to harm devices or networks

PUA - potentially unwanted application

XSS - Cross-site scripting

PASTA - Process for Attack Simulation and Threat Analysis

SSl/TLS (Secure Sockets Layer/Transport Layer Security - are cryptographic protocols designed to provide secure communication over a network.

SIEM - Security Information and Event Management

Documentation - is any form of recorded content that is used for a specific purpose

Playbook - a manual that provides details about any operational action

SOAR - Security orchestration, automation, and response

Cyber deception
Cyber deception involves techniques that deliberately deceive malicious actors with the goal of increasing detection and improving defensive strategies.

Chain of custody - the process of documenting evidence possession and control during an incident lifecycle.

log - a record of events that occur within the organization's systems

FISMA - Federal Information Modernization Act
GLBA - Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act
SOX - Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

Telemetry - the collection and transmission of data for analysis

SIEM - Security Information and Event Management) - an application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization

Search Processing Language (SPL) - Splunk's query language

A GET request retrieves data from a server while a POSt request submits data to a server.

Algorithm - a set of rules that solve a problem

Automation - is the use of technology to reduce human and manual effort to perform common and repetitive tasks.

Parsing - is the process of converting data into a more readable format

A syntax error is an error that involves invalid usage of programming language.

Security mindset - The ability to evaluate risk and constantly seek out and identify the potential or actual breach of a system, application, or data.

Protecting the data and assets of an organization is the primary goal of a security team.

Incident escalation - The process of identifying a potential security incident, triaging it, and handing it off to a more experienced team member.

Stakeholder - an individual or group that has an interest in the decision or activities of an organization.

OWASP Top 10 - A globally recognized standard awareness document that lists the top 10 most critical security risks to web applications.

Security websites and blogs:
- CSO Online
- Krebs on Security
- Dark Reading

POSSIBLE TECHNICAL INTERVIEW QUESTION

What is the TCP/IP model? 

The TCP/IP model is a framework used to visualize how data is organized and transmitted across a network. 

What is the OSI model?

The OSI model stands for open systems interconnection (OSI) model. It is a standardized concept that describes the seven layers computers use to communicate and send data over the network. 

What are SIEM tools and what are they used for? 

SIEM tools are security information and event management tools that are used by security professionals to identify and analyze security threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IT SUPPORT

Abstraction - to take a relatively complex system and simplify it for our use

4 main layers of a Computer

- Hardware layer - physical components of a computer
- OS - Allows hardware to communicate with the system
- Software layer - is how we as humans interact with the computer
- User - interacts with the computer

Abstraction: To take a relatively complex system and simplify it for our use

Algorithm: A series of steps that solves specific problems

ASCII: The oldest character encoding standard used is ASCII. It represents the English alphabet, digits, and punctuation marks

Binary system: The communication that a computer uses is referred to as binary system, also known as base-2 numeral system

Byte: A group of 8 bits

Character encoding: Is used to assign our binary values to characters so that we as humans can read them

Computer: A device that stores and processes data by performing calculations

Cryptography: The overarching discipline that covers the practice of coding and hiding messages from third parties

Decimal form- base 10 system: In the decimal system, there are 10 possible numbers you can use ranging from zero to nine

Digital divide: The growing skills gap between people with and without digital literacy skills

Information technology: The use of digital technology, like computers and the internet, to store and process data into useful information

Linux OS: Linux is one of the largest open source operating systems used heavily in business infrastructure and in the consumer space

Logic gates: Allow transistors to do more complex tasks, like decide where to send electrical signals depending on logical conditions

Open source: This means the developers will let other developers share, modify, and distribute their software for free

PDA (Personal Digital Assistant): Allows computing to go mobile

Punch cards: A sequence of cards with holes in them to automatically perform calculations instead of manually entering them by hand

RGB model: RGB or red, green, and blue model is the basic model of representing colors

UTF-8: The most prevalent encoding standard used today

Ports - connection points that we can connect devices to that extend the functionality of our computer.

Programs - are instructions that tell a computer what to do.

External data bus (EDB) - A row of wires that interconnect the parts of our computer.

Clock speed- the maximum number of clock cycles that it can handle in a certain time period.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC+ PREP

Control Categories

*Technical Controls
	- Controls implemented using systems
	
*Managerial Controls
	- Administrative controls associated with security design and implentation

*Operational controls
	- Controls implemented by people instead of systems
	
*Physical Controls
	- Limits physical access
	
	
The CIA Triad
	- Sometimes referenced as the AIC Triad
	
*Confidentiality
	- Prevent disclosure of information to unauthorized individuals or systems
	
*Integrity
	- Data is stored and transferred as intended
	
*Availability
	- Systems and networks must be up and running
	- Information is accessible to authorized users
	
Non-repudiation - a user cannot deny (repudiate) having performed a transaction.

Proof of integrity - verify data does not change
	- In cryptography, by using a hash - if anything changes in the data, the hash changes

Proof of origin - Prove the source of the messages

